The second chapter in the Fairness in Machine Learning book delves into some of the definitions behind classification systems before then defining fairness criteria, how to achieve them, the relationships between them, their limitations, and the purpose that they serve.

The paper ultimately comes to the conclusion that between the three main formal non-discrimination criteria (independence, separation, and sufficiency), while there are ways to implement them at different stages in the pipeline from pre-processing to training to post-processing, it is undesirable to impose any two criteria at once. The paper also weighs the pros and cons of each fairness criterion. The mutual exclusivity of the criteria requires prioritizing and weighing the utility of certain criteria to effectively avoid discrimation. From this paper, separation seems like both the most effective criteria generally, although not necessarily for this project. While independence is achievable at more stages of the training pipeline, it comes with the pitfall that decisions based on a classifier that satisfies independence often have undesirable properties. Separation instead chooses to acknowledge that the sensitive characteristic might be correlated with the target variable, and allows this as long as it is justified by the target variable. It instead requires equal true and false positive rates in all groups, which seems to achieve fairness more directly than simply making the sensitive characteristic independent of the target variable and potentially creating less accurate decisions. Sufficiency seems the least effective of the three, as when imposed, it does not cause a substantial change in current practices. This was evaluated by considering what each criteria means in terms of classification, and how that impacts both the relationships between the criteria and the implementation of individual criteria themselves.

The information provided in the paper about formal non-discrimination criteria does not seem immediately applicable to our project, which focuses more specifically on the linguistic capabilities of the model. However, the concepts at play of separation and independence are both useful to consider: separation, while an effective criteria in other ML applications, does not apply as directly to this project because we aim not to reach an equality of false positive and negative rates between protected groups, but rather to make a model robust to these groups and prevent biased behavior for one or the other. However, an important aspect of separation is acknowledging that the sensitive characteristic (protected groups) is correlated with the target variable, which we are doing here. Furthermore, independence as a concept does not seem entirely applicable either, as while we aim in theory to make the sensitive characteristic independent of the score, one hypothesis we are testing directly involves proving that intents are correlated with sensitive attributes. Hence, both separation and independence are helpful in some ways to keep in mind, but neither are entirely relevant.
